okay this is live I
think uh let's fix like a million things
that are currently
broken let me see if I can get this ring
light to work for this stream so I got
this light and like if I'm standing up
here this looks really good let me green
screen it as
well hold
on uh filters chroma
[Music]
key what happened to my chroma key oh
there's no light hold
[Music]
on okay so the background just
disappears right um
the issue is that this is really really
bunch I put this on the lowest
setting this is still way too dark
brighter I
mean it's a little dark dark
right what are we
thinking well I definitely have to bring
this hold
on I'm trying to think how much I want
to mess with this because I have this
microphone up here
ah
[ __ ] well whatever it's going to be
scuff for today I just wanted to stream
a couple quick things anyways um here
we're going to just turn this a little
brighter for now so that the green
screen kicks
in I
will Hilt this down a little
[Music]
bit like that yeah there we go I'll redo
the Chrome
[Music]
enough freaking burning my eyes
out and this works but I can't I can't
work like
on I figured that I've got the mic way
up here as well let me see does this
even
work if I
uh see if I just
properties I want to see if this is
actually
monitoring okay monitoring
output it
works quality is not
amazing but it works now all I got to do
is figure out the green screen I guess
and we'll be okay for today and I can
just crop this and we'll be
good and then I'll say uh I'll talk a
little bit about what's been going on
lately a lot of good prog
actually but some [ __ ]
too okay so this chroma
key is it it's not disappearing my hands
right yeah this is fine so close
this go to
[Music]
stream and
think
yeah there we
[Music]
better let's just crop this here crop
this here
whoops then I can put my
cell over
here
right and because it's green screened
whoops CU it's green screen now I
actually can do this and have a be
decent bit of room and then I can
do this and have a little bit of room
okay that's better
right it's a little larger
and we should be
[Music]
good all right
um welcome YouTube
folks I want to fix the microphone just
a little bit because this is like
obnoxiously
bad I think if I just oops put this here
maybe you can let me know how the
quality is on the audio I've got the mic
like overhead um so what's been going on
lately so this
weekend so Saturday uh Sunday and then
all day yesterday as
well I was just grinding out the video
trying to make something really cool for
puffer and I got all the takes done I
think they're very good I think people
are going to be very happy with it uh
it's going to be a really cool overview
to a lot of stuff that's wrong in RL and
what puffer is going to do about it it's
going to I think that if you're brand
new to RL you're going to learn a lot
and even if you're a world expert you're
going to learn things too so that's
going to be really cool uh I I probably
have to do another couple days worth of
editing and I should probably be doing
that now but I frankly just burnt myself
out so badly over the last couple days
doing all the takes for this that I kind
of just want to chill and write a little
bit of code and hang out for a bit uh
maybe I'll start on that tonight we'll
say
um but yeah it was yesterday to give you
an idea was 11 plus straight hours of
recording like 200 takes to get this
stuff done right uh it just it takes a
lot of time I had to really I had a few
problems with the AV setup I had to
really optimize a bunch of stuff I
basically turned my whole office into a
mini studio to try to do this well um
and
then I woke up
to I woke up to this
[ __ ] this is what we're dealing
with I'm not going to show the whole
Originals for this but I will show I can
post I don't know if there's a I think
I'm allowed to technically I can post
the whole thing so you know I'm not
clipping it out of context but this is
what I'm dealing
with so puffer lip is my best work uh
I've been working on this
project you know on the side towards the
end of my PhD unpaid uh but mostly you
know more than full-time since I
graduated I've really been trying to do
something good for the field here
and I've kept everything free and open
source right and I'm going to keep doing
that that's not going anywhere um but I
I do want it to be acknowledged that you
know I don't think that things are less
valuable
inherently because they're open
source but it definitely makes it harder
you have to be more creative about how
you make any
money but where it stands I've sunk 40
probably more than 40,000 into building
puffer with the cluster and the setup
and all the different things I've done
for it um it's all been free been
providing support to multiple Labs you
know been trying to build out a cool
Community here been really trying to fix
the
field and uh this is what Academia does
uh to say thank
you I had the papers review kind of in
the middle initially I had one rejection
where some idiot just used an llm to
write a whole bunch of [ __ ] um but I
had two like you know borderline accepts
and usually I'm pretty good at getting
reviewers to be able to increase their
scores um you know just by providing
like additional details and experiments
and whatever uh and this guy decided to
change his score from a borderline
accept to uh clear reject so that means
there's basically no way that this paper
gets in
um and that's kind of insane to
me this is something that is speeding up
RL by a factor of 10 it's solving all
the problems that I wish had been solved
when I was a PhD student problems that
many of my colleagues have told me that
are really just making them waste tons
and tons of
time uh and this is what Academia
does now the thing is I've been dealing
with this for years
so like I can deal with it but it's
still just
like you know you occasionally just get
reminded and it's just so disappointing
it's like so
disappointing and one of the things that
I let me put it this way
right one of the things
that I think would just show you how
ridiculous this
is is that these people are very happy
to use my tools and still reject my
work like imagine if the reviews were
not Anonymous right
imagine if basically that by rejecting a
paper you know saying that you don't
think a paper is important enough to be
published imagine if they were saying
you know uh I don't want free support on
puffer for my lab
ever
right who's going to do that who's going
to say yeah you know this thing is
making RL really fast and easy and I do
RL but I don't want support for my lab
ever uh on this on any of these tools
I don't think anybody would do
that
but when you can kind of just hide
behind the anonymity here and you can
kind of just like gatekeep whatever the
hell you want based on some like really
weird outdated ideas of what science has
to
be and actually saying like this could
hurt The credibility of nurs to publish
this yeah publishing Puffer
right this project that's got tons of
people using it it's by far my most used
project I've done previous work previous
published work right uh it's
been this will hurt The credibility of
nerves
really it's just
ridiculous so I wanted to just share
that initially partially just because
I'm mad um really because I'm mad and
just being petty um
but I do think that these things
shouldn't just go away quietly and I let
way too many of them go away quietly
during my PhD because I didn't want to
start drama for my lab for MIT for my
advisor right they're all
great but this type of stuff just can't
happen this is how you kill progress in
a
field but that's not what we're going to
do today I'm just going to fix a few
very boring issues I'm going to figure
out some compiling stuff I'm going to
see if I can figure out a few of the
tool chain things with uh C and scyon
and puffer in general and actually this
mic is so out of
position let me just
like let me at least put it like over
here oops let me at least do like this
or something that'll be at least
maybe
hopefully fix one other quick thing and
um yeah there we
go
um if you do want to support my work uh
for
free and you know just have these dumb
academic things not matter anymore you
can just start puffer lib that's really
the best way to help me out it's all I
really ever ask is to just star the
repository it really it really does
quite a bit um I'll put the link in the
chat and then we're going to start we're
going to you know ignore this and we're
going to start working on some cool
stuff here not really that cool to be
fair it's going to be more chill today
uh I need to figure out some compilation
stuff I could do it off stream I could
do it on stream I figured I'd hang
around and answer some questions
especially because I have some people
building Sims and
uh
yeah when's your video coming out I just
went through well Peter I have like 20
hours of editing to do so basically as
soon as I do that hopefully I can finish
it this week like I really burnt hard on
the video this weekend though like I was
editing the thing until midnight last
night I forgot to eat for like a full
day and I mean I got it done I got all
the takes done but I need a bit before
I'm going to start on the
editing kind of want to just hang around
a bit and fix a couple things with
puffer chat with a couple people working
on other Sims that kind of
thing it's going to be good though it's
going to be good we're going to see what
people in Academia think it's going to
be a bit
controversial but um
it's going to be
good I really hope it does well too
because I it's a ton of work
and I mean if these things work like
getting the eyes on puffer just really
helps
out but I like the goal is to not have
to be doing more and more of this I'd
rather be doing less and less so I can
just be focused on dev because that's
what I'm good at right I'm good at Dev
um I'm not a bad speaker either but
really the thing that's important is
building
right and I think that's what a lot of
people
forget is that ultimately the thing is
you have to build it it's the main thing
that
matters and the skill expression there
is the skill difference is
insane let me fix these screens and um I
got to remember where we left off on
this I think we were doing something a
little confusing if I recall
oops we
had what I was trying to
do is I was trying to figure out a good
way I was trying to figure out a good
way to
compile C
extensions and scon
extensions so that we could pretty
easily ship code back and forth we can
like push code from python to scon to C
without it being super painful so
essentially like let's say you're a
researcher who has a cool idea for an
environment right you can just prototype
something real quick in Python and then
without it being too painful you can
push it into scyon to make it a 100 a
thousand times faster and then you know
if either you yourself or with my help
or with you know somebody's help here if
you want it to run on the web as a cool
demo like the snake environment does
then you can push it into the C
layer and I want to want I want to have
the process for all that be very smooth
and seamless it's good
tooling Academia be
shopping Academia is
crazy it's very disappointing to me it's
I mean I guess it's nothing I didn't
know but
like you can read the paper it's I mean
it's on archive I do recommmend reading
it it's a good paper I updated the link
as well on the
website
like Yeah The Language isn't crazy
conventional I'll
make I'll make statements like and even
dependency management is so poor that uh
independency management is so poor that
even installing environments can be a
hassle everybody in RL knows that's true
right do I really need to include five
pages where like I'll go through like a
million different environments that
throw random garbage errors when you try
to install them do I really need to do
that is that just being pedantic yeah it
is right and then I'll make statements
like
it I'll make statements like learning
libraries make strong assumptions that
are in compatible with cognitively
interesting and efficient environments
it's a general statement right and then
I'll go through and I'll give like
evidence to it and it's an opinionated
statement but I do have good evidence
for it right like the design for Atari
so you have to have flat observations
and then I'll say like the most
interesting environments which is
subjective but like does it detract no
not at all they usually don't adhere to
these constraints like net hack is
rendered in asky there's additional
information so there's a lot of good
solid objective technical detail in here
but like just any sort of statement like
this pisses people off and the thing is
like I've written papers that are purely
objective before right I've written many
papers that have been published like
this and they're so boring to read and
they completely lose the plot because
like you can't frame
anything I mean you can read it and
you'll get the idea that there's like
there's a little bit more like
opinionated there's a bit that's
opinionated in here but there's also a
good a lot of good solid data to back it
up and like it prevents a very clear
picture of the field and what puffer is
trying to do to improve it which is a
lot more than you can say for most
incompatible yeah don't use K K's really
bad use Docker I know it sucks I know
you're like well I don't want to use
something that heavy trust me I did it
for years like you use something like
puffer tank you have a base image that
works you add stuff to it you ship it as
an image so you don't have to Reed down
like recompile everything every time and
then you're good forever you'll never
have infrastructure problems again it's
great and these are things that like I
provide for the RL Community for free
right like you can just use
well I'll get the green screen working
perfectly later there's going to be like
a little bit of you can kind of see over
here it's a little hazy but
whatever pip use cond for en
H I would well pip is fine I would
generally like if you look at the way we
do stuff in puffer tank it'll make
things a lot
easier Buffer's been doing well
843 that's crazy I might hit a thousand
by before I leave California for the end
of the summer that's awesome that's
really what we were going
for let me see about this these
libraries I'm trying to figure
out the basically the way that I want
puffer to be able to make things easy
here is I want it to be easy to like
compile Standalone C
code and then there's a scon layer which
also can be
compiled can you explain the difference
between the regular and advanced puffer
API yeah easy so uh the regular API is
just you throw a wrapper on your
existing gym or petting zoo environment
and then you can use you know our
emulation tools to make it really easy
for any RL library to use the
environment even if it was not
compatible before CU most libraries
don't actually support gy and petting to
they support a subset uh but with puffer
you can pretty much support everything
and then you can use our vectorization
which is several times faster sometimes
10 times faster that is applicable if
you're using like clean RL or anything
that allows you to slot in something
with a roughly standard vectorization
API you can use that uh so that's that's
the standard that's what we provide to
make it easy for users now the advanced
API that's kind of not even an API it's
really the lack of an API it's just that
for some of the newer environments so
far um we've written them to match the
spec of the vector environment not of
the like gy or petting zoo underlying
environments and that is to get around
some of the API overhead associated with
gy and petting zoo so once we have a few
more of these I'm going to better Define
out like a act ual standard to make it
easy so you don't have boiler plate
associated with writing code like that
and it'll automatically be compatible
with Jim petu and everything else as
well but for now the advanced API is
just like you know you're running on
manual mode you're bypassing gim and
petting zoo so that allows you to go a
bit faster
am I doing the setup
here I have this as a pix
this is one of the places where we do
actually ask jipp for
things um where is
make set
up I
on
a
clang I need
clang
yeah can work
built the
code or is there
better
it let's see
I might be just trying to do something
weird
here oh I forgot that there is
um I forgot about the source
okay then you build the C
code with the
commands is that a good idea
though and then you link to it
haven't read the paper yet if you told
GPT to reward the paper you might get
through shy the thing is I know how to
do this right I'm not a bad
writer I know how to do this but
like I don't want to write a bad paper
just to get it accepted right puffer lib
I'm no longer in Academia where I have
to publish papers for the sake of
publishing papers right I'm trying to do
good work in order to push RL forward
and like I'm not going to write a paper
that like is technically correct but
loses the entire point in order to get
it through right let me give you an
example of a paper like this let me show
you what I'm talking
about here's an example of an incredibly
well-known paper that just completely
misses the
so they introduce a bunch of different
metrics for like evaluating the
statistical power of experiments and
they basically say that like RL as a
field is doing bad science because we're
not running enough experiments to
justify any of the claims right that's
what they're saying and basically
everything that they say in here is
technically correct the best kind of
correct uh but it completely misses the
point the reason that we're not running
enough experiments is because the
environments and the algorithms are too
damn slow because a bunch of pedantic
researchers decided that we should push
wall clock runtime to the absolute
bottom of our priorities list so because
Academia has no money and therefore no
Hardware we can't run enough experiment
to actually do good science so we're
forced to do bad science so pointing out
that we're doing bad science is
absolutely
useless they say like you should be
running dozens of experiments and like
their standard implementations for
things will take hours per experiment
it's that dumb and like you could also
just use puffer lib and then you could
run those dozens of experiments in you
know a few minutes um but I'm sorry
that's not good science
right yeah
clap all right
yeah
that I haven't heard that one in a while
so thank
you H that's good I was having a rough
morning thank you for that
[ __ ] got to have reproducible artifacts
the rest is their excuse everything's
reproducible everything's reproducible
it's all you can literally watch me
doing this all in building it live and
all the code is open source how many
like show me this show me another
scientist where that's the case case
oh I think I got
a
yeah doesn't scon compile to
C why do you have to rewrite it and see
yourself so you don't let me explain so
and I want to be very clear for
contributors here that doing cool stuff
in puffer does not require writing C I
think it's actually a great Gateway
because it's really not that much
harder uh but this is why see it's so I
can run it in the browser there's Zero
Performance reason to do it it's just so
that I can compile it for the browser I
don't think that there's a way to
compile scon for the browser that's
it it's a pretty cool demo right but
this is the only
reason it's a great way to share your
work though if you can and like I'm
happy to help I love c i me getting into
into it it's been
fun there's like one or two things that
I need to figure out how to do better
and see but like I want to start
building up like a puffer li.
C it sounds like a fun thing to do
they're also like I really missed some
of the tools from C right like I miss
the super fast build times I miss having
like GDB where you can continue multiple
times through a loop I miss like a lot
of the stuff that comes with it
man okay I don't have anything weird in
my recent tab we can just do that uh do
you ever plan on adding more algorithms
to puffer sure if it becomes useful I
mean you got to realize that like you
can use puffer with anything right like
yeah technically our demo is super fast
and if you want to use those things I
could understand why youd want to have
different algorithms
um so yeah we'll probably expand on that
but the thing is
like in my mind algorithms are not the
thing holding RL back right now it's the
speed and consistency of experiment
execution the environment quality many
other things I'll talk about this in the
video but I think that you're going to
see you'll see from the video but like
RL is just about to hyperscale it's very
soon coming now we basically as soon as
we have a few more good environments
some of which the viewers are writing
right like the little Atari environments
that the users are writing that are fast
those are actually incredibly helpful
but yeah as soon as we have a few more
environments some of which are simple
some of which are complex right that you
can train on Fast the field is just
going to hyperscale you'll
see YouTubers should be doing dude 11
hours of recording Nathan
part of the reason I'm streaming today
is to check in on uh on you and Noah if
you happen to drop by to see how the
environments are going um but yeah it
was I did like a marathon recording
thing yesterday it was nuts I had a
2800w script and I had to like you know
prepare and deliver that um I had I can
have like a couple notes written on the
wall but I don't have a teleprompter or
anything like that like it's a pretty
organic delivery having to like recall
like edit recall and deliver more than
10 pages worth of script in a
grind quality of the delivery I'm pretty
happy with as well I'm going to have to
go through and see if it's like
consistent from start to finish but you
know are there any cool environments
left that you want in puffer oh
absolutely so it depends on level of
experience for new folks I generally
suggest picking one of the Atari
environments that we don't have yet and
making uh and reimplementing it very
close to the original but running at
like a million plus steps per second at
least the state of it um we have
breakout and pong I don't know if
somebody's already doing one of the
other ones um I forget if it was you or
somebody else who asked uh who asked
what they should implement but basically
just ask around in the Discord make sure
you're not implementing the same one as
someone else but like the original set
in Atari environments I would like to
have all of those in puffer but Ultra
fast um it can be State based you don't
have to do rendering at train time um
but yeah I want those for sure and then
I I kind of look at those as a Gateway
for like once you've done that and kind
of gotten the gist of how to do ultra
high perf Sim if you want to do more um
and you want to learn more on how to do
that I'm happy to do deeper collabs like
Nathan was talking about doing like this
cool turnbas B PVP type simulator based
on an older game uh there are lots of
other game types that we're looking at
for that the general idea is that we
want to have a variety of different
types of game environments um and if you
have ideas like I can basically look
through and tell you if I think that it
can be made fast and if i' wanted if I'd
want something more complex yeah if you
want to run something more complex like
I have some ideas I'm talking with a guy
this week about us looking at doing like
a card based game something like magic
the Gathering seeing if we can do
something like that um you know we have
the mobo we could do some sort of like
RTS type thing uh if you have robotic
experience you know we could do more
physics type stuff as well um let me
think of other cool games that we could
do like man what are some of like the
other oh yeah there's like hide-and seek
this like environment that's written in
Madrona that's like really hard to use
that we could do on CPU way faster um
same thing with like Capture the Flag we
don't have a first-person shooter type
thing yet I forget if it was you or
somebody else who was asking about it
that would be hard but I think it could
be done tons of different Sims like
basically anything complex and
interesting as a problem that you're
passionate about if I can help find a
way to make it fast then we can do it
like the goal is that we want all these
environments training at hundreds of
thousands of steps per second so that's
the
bar hey Cole if I want to use puffer lib
for RL for lood Dev should I be using
puffer tank it'll make it easier uh it
depends on it depends on what you want
to do like puffer tank exists mostly
because the dependencies for a lot of
common environments are annoying to
install puffer itself is not hard to set
up so puffer tank exists because the
whole ecosystem RL is a mess not because
puffer itself is but yeah I use puffer
tank for everything and I love it so
it's kind of nice
I got to remember to reply to all this
freaking Witter replies because the
algorithm promos
pain oh this is actually okay that's
eating up really quick
um I'm trying to think if I like this
because then the sources have to
go builds oh I forgot because this is
just arbitrary code you can just do this
right that's kind of like that's kind of
funny
but you don't want to run all this every
time do
you I remember I couldn't figure out out
how to get this to link
properly but we should probably start
playing with
this let's do
that God damn it I literally mute Claude
as a keyword and it still shows up in
I don't want to rebuild everything every
time
right I guess we'll just for now we'll
like
and then
oops what we'll do
[Music]
is we'll just
like
sub subprocess and then we'll
do subprocess
dot check call I actually don't know
what that one is
Source it's just really weird how it's
set up and I I don't want it to be
confusing oh you can just hide that tab
that's nice I didn't realize you could
do that
so this should be um poer lib
environments oceans snake lib snake.
Soo and then you're going to
compile upper lib
ironment snake snake.
c i and then rib can go here and we'll
just have to move it
anyways okay so that's like a nice
instant compile
right
um and now if I look iner
Li ocean
think yeah we've got the
here oh we have the O and then we have
to build the doso right I forgot to do
this
right so this compiles in one step to do
so
CL and yeah cuz I'm using clim
right not sure if you're still around
Peter but I don't
like I'm happy to chat about specific
games as well or it doesn't have to be
games either I go to games by default
but like if you have other ideas for
different types of simulators that you
would think would be interesting like
I'm more than happy to basically provide
free advice on like how to build stuff
like how to structure stuff uh what
things are likely feasible to be made
fast or not uh for things that are being
like you know open sourced and uh as
usable
environments you don't have to
contribute code directly to puffer
either it's enough for it to be like a
third party easily installable thing
that like runs at the same
speed though you know I appreciate it
for sure
I'm happy to help
maintain some of the cooler environments
who knows maybe I'll even take it on
myself to do the ports to see so we can
run them on the web for
fun so this extension is just like never
worked
right this like extension mode
I see why this is appealing though to
have a sorcer like this because it would
make compilation substantially easier
but for starters I think we can just
like
man
okay so sources is going to
be here then
include d
is Source SLC
code ocean
snake and then what we have to do
is
RB
include no wait
RB Library include
Cedar what would some what about
something like maoko would that be
quicker with
puppy yeah I will show you so here's
somebody you should follow on uh you
actually all should follow on Twitter
he's a collaborator of ours huge huge
contributor to neural
MMO and he's doing exactly
that nice he's at 180 he just started on
Twitter um where is it
oh he's been reposting tons of [ __ ]
um where is it okay yeah so here he has
uh majoko ant he's got hyper Prem sweeps
working on this I'll link you
this so yeah we've got majoko running
with this
we're going to add more robotic stuff as
well like there's no reason it shouldn't
be better with
me fix the AC real quick and then I
think I think I understand this here
I'm a bit confused about libraries
versus Library dur I mean just
what are you trying to do
now so I'm just generally trying to make
it easier to go between Python scon and
C with puffer I'm trying to clean up a
lot of the boiler plate make it easier
to get builds running just like a little
bit of housekeeping um and the idea is
going to be like I want to play around
more with C because if I can get it to
the point where it's pretty easy to go
one to one from scon to C then it
creates a really easy pipeline right
right where like researchers that have
very little software engineering
experience can prototype stuff in Python
and then like you know with a little bit
of advising or buyout or some
contribution it can get pushed into scon
and be 100 or a thousand times faster
and then if we want to run it on the web
to have like a cool demo so you can play
it online or like play against other
agents then we can push it from scyon
into
C that's the idea
okay so this is what I was looking for
here is that it
has all
these yeah but like I'm completely
unfamiliar with the build systems for
this
like C on its own is not that bad but
like the fact that it's it has to work
with the setup P that P and like all
this stuff is a little weird
micro VMS for
Docker no what are
be is it like rayb SL lib or something
yeah SL live
snake a bit confusing allegedly unic
kernels can't
vouch I don't what what is the intent
here wonder if creating a GPT in chat
with some examples of context I
generally just think that you like you
don't use GPT for trying to think for
you like um I'm using it here like as
just like basically cuz I figured that
it probably has a bunch of docks so it
probably like has some idea of uh the
usage patterns of these things but I
generally advise against using language
models to try to think or like solve
anything can you recommend some good
material to me for me writing my
bachelor's thesis in informatics need
help I'm completely
lost H
um I I don't know what a bachelor's
thesis is um
I think most Samford didn't have that
assuming are you trying to like publish
a paper because it's a very different
story if you're just trying to write
something for your University like most
of the time you can pretty much write
anything and you'll be fine and don't
worry about it um if you're trying to
get something published at a conference
then
like you got to read a bunch of papers
and with the debacle today um definitely
just look at what I've done and don't do
that cuz it won't get
accepted if it's for your University and
it's not going to a conference I'm
pretty sure I don't know if the culture
is different in Europe but I think you
can pretty much write anything like is
there an oral defense or something like
that cuz if there isn't I don't at least
in the US these things really aren't
taken that seriously like you can kind
of just write whatever and be fine
um yeah
something well yeah I've had to do that
before right it's like it's like a
report right it's like a more formal
longer report on something
I mean basically if you're not going up
against like a a standard process that
has a bunch of weird rules you can
pretty much do whatever I
think like you just write a document as
formally as you can and you know with as
much detail as you can and like you
don't have to think much harder than
that
academic writing for me is is very
difficult because it's
like it's very difficult for me to write
something that I wouldn't want to read
right and I really don't read many
academic papers cover to cover because
they're just so boring like I don't know
why we're like this right there's no
reason that we can't write formal
correct stuff without making it this
boring
welcome are things on fire and puffer on
the
boxes academic writing yeah it's it's
bad I don't know if you've seen the
latest Twitter debacle
but ridiculous
are the boxes working like the ones that
you have are they
right and then this is going to fail
with a Linker
error
yeah
so why does it do this right
look that guy I don't make the decisions
with scon okay it does whatever it
wants you want to help me fix this
compiler stuff it would be much
appreciated I'm trying to make it really
easy to push code from python to scon to
C in puffer so you just have this really
fluid ability to go from high level the
low level um and then you know going
from python to scon gives you
performance and going from scon to C
doesn't really matter for performance
but it lets you just run stuff anywhere
including on the
web oh this error like this this is Rich
yeah I added this uh I added this into
puffer just to like it's you know one of
the small things I do to try to make
things more convenient we just use Rich
by default
easy I forget that like most of the most
of y'all aren't on Twitter which is
probably for the
best um but if you're wondering about
the the video I
post we've got
this so uh this is how the video is
going
it's recorded I've got 20 hours of
editing to
do
[Music]
puff stream keeps dropping out going to
go for run go
run running is good I've only been able
to run 5Ks like for the last week I've
just been so screwed up like between the
50k and all the work I've been doing and
stuff it's going to take me some time to
get back up to the the
distances I did my 5K this morning I
keep going out too late it's like it's
too hot by the time I get out I actually
I got up at a reasonable time today and
then like I immediately lost you know
all the nice time in the morning because
I was dealing with this like review
yesterday and usually I work until I'm
about to pass out and need to eat food
so you go at 12:30 yeah all
right my wife hates
it your wife shouldn't hate you getting
in shape
man screw it take her with you
exercise is a priority got to be no
better investment you can make than in
your own health really
isn't
died heart
issue that's
terrible but that's got to be like the
extreme outlier case
right yeah most people die of like heart
disease cancer or diabetes like one of
those
right I say is I have four freaking
chocolate chip cookies here for
snacks don't run on trails in the middle
of the night oh yeah that's a dumb idea
don't freaking do
that what I generally S Suggest is like
like if you can get a hard packed dirt
thing like it's really stable sometimes
they'll have these on the sides of roads
where it's just hard packed dirt that's
that's the best thing to run
best I will say though I've
started since I've cut the running
volume and I'm like slowly increasing
back I've started doing my lower body
lifts again and it's good it's going to
take some time to get stuff back but
it's good I won't be able to pull 400
again and drawing
here I've just been thinking about this
like every man has its
limits nah genetically I I'm capable of
pulling 500 genetically if I trained 400
should be very doable
now I have pretty good deadlift
genetics pretty long
arms very bad squat genetics but
whatever
I'm trying to think what's going on with
this right
like it's got to just like not be
linking to rid properly actually where's
this building to it's
the thing is it's putting this in build
as well right
no it didn't build before like
this I'm doing something different here
bet I just don't understand the python
build chain well enough
you shouldn't have to change the python
path that's
dumb shouldn't have to change your
globals just to like install a local
package
wow there are a lot of YouTube folks
that like watching me debug Arcane build
issues well welcome we're kind of
chilling
today fixing some RL things this is
funny
for any new folks here we're usually
building cool RL stuff it's all open
source right
here you can check that out and if you
want to help me out St the
repository what I'm currently doing is
I'm trying to make it easier to push
different layers of RL code from python
into scon into C just depending on where
you want to write stuff um so I'm
currently fighting the python build
chain to do that
this is a long-term issue like a long
time issue I think if I can finally fix
it it'll make things a lot easier
have well you can see right
here it's got- O to
build oh it's building to a temp file
though and then
it's from the temp file
here but then it does
build li. Linux
is okay so this is interesting it builds
and then it copies but for whatever
reason it doesn't look like it's copy
what if I run it
again it should show me the copies right
you see right
here
copying
[Music]
to every other one
works only when you use the extension
type does it not
work are you on dev Branch yeah
bet this is not the dev Branch isn't
broken okay what I'm trying to do at the
moment
is yeah I did run in place
right python setup.py build X in
place um I'm trying to do something a
little different
here no your local will work bet the the
repo is not broken like what I'm trying
to do is I'm trying to get remember how
I wrote this snake environment into C
um I'm trying to get the C version of
the environment to compile and then to
import the C version so I can call it
from
Python and I'm trying to do it in a way
that's going to make it really easy for
us to push code from python into cython
into C and like the goal is that we're
going to be able to just cut a bunch of
boiler plate and have a really easy time
with interop
interoperability uh across various
different layers of the stack without
having a bunch of [ __ ] abstraction
and boiler
plate you're missing files
yes this is not something that you
should personally be concerned with that
guy might know
dock yeah that's a Linker error
B and the thing is
thisso is not getting compiled here in
the first place
so we've
called the shell file to compile the
dcode because I wanted to have a
separate shell file to just compile C
since that runs way faster than .
Pi C is
compiled we have this as a
good we don't need
macros Library dur
and
libraries is it runtime Library dur is
this a thing well regardless we this
doesn't say why it's compiling to the
wrong
interesting
depends
language
so this doesn't even have like an output
directory
right okay so this is supposed to be an
extension ARG anyways this isn't doing
anything
there no way to uh to control the output
D maybe we got to look all the way to
setup now
tools this is actually kind of funny I
didn't realize that this is Enterprise
that's kind of cool they just do support
haven't read your paper sure somebody
created a way of testing drugs 10 times
faster would be at a medical
comp looked at your Twitter post and you
come across as
entitled I have been working uh all of
my stuff is free and open source it's
all free
I develop it at Great personal
cost um puffer is something I've been
working on uh I've made available for
free I've
spent well over
$40,000 uh on Hardware to support it
which I've provided for free for number
of projects free support to many
academic
Labs
um yeah like when you really look at all
the stuff that I've done and my track
record over the last several years
I think you'll understand why I get
tired of being treated like this um in
the review
process
it's a bit ridiculous let's
there's this whole context that's
missing as
well if you've been around RL for the
last few years where
like RL was really solving everything up
until
2019 I mean we almost pulled we've
almost gotten to the point where we
pulled like a nuclear fusion thing where
ARA was just doing absolutely everything
and then it stopped cuz like the big
Labs pulled out and started doing
language
models and instead of carrying on the
progress Academia came up with a bunch
of really weird ideas about what work
was valuable and what had to be done and
really just everybody Sho themselves in
the feet and we've been stuck and that's
what I'm trying to get us out of and
it's like they're going to fight me
Kicking and Screaming every step of the
way that's really what it feels
like um and
like it doesn't matter ultimately
because I'm going to keep developing
this stuff and ultimately people are
just going to see the results I've
putting the results out
constantly but it's still a real pain to
just not be able to even go share my
work at a conference right and like talk
with people and share
it that seems like a pretty reasonable
thing to expect
I mean you can see a lot of the I mean
you can see there's a lot of support for
this stuff because people know that like
sure if I'd come into RL 6 months ago
and we acting like this sure right but
like I've been building open source
stuff for RL for the
past eight years
now and like it's been like this every
step of the way and I thought it was
getting better like I led this uh
there's this an open letter and I
actually got them to change some of the
parameters of the uh the call for papers
in order to better support this type of
work for nups but then the thing is like
the reviewers can just ignore the call
for papers they can just ignore the
guidelines and just do whatever they
want um and there absolutely no
consequences because it's Anonymous in
fact if you
explicitly like don't do your job there
will still be no consequences I had a
reviewer at RLC just like type my paper
into chat GPT and paste the summary uh
as their review and I can prove this as
well because the whole review was just
like oh look at all these typos that are
in this paper and none of the typos
existed so it was a fabricated
review
like there's no accountability
whatsoever so the thing I was saying
right is like look if we're going to
assess work on its impact right that's
the goal of the conference is to assess
work on its imp imp if I if it were to
be not
Anonymous um I don't think anybody's
going to reject a library that they see
as potentially
useful and say like yeah I don't want
support on this right I don't want to
use your work ever because that's what
the standard should be right if you
don't think that this work will ever be
useful then sure don't accept it but
like many of these people are going to
be using my tools their students are
going to be using my
tools and they're still going to vote to
you know reject my work that's a bit
ridiculous
yeah I mean my stuff is genuine like you
can check everything I say it's all
public like
code's all there papers are all there
install this is not deprecated
right this is how they say you should do
it of course this is stupid because it
runs down all your build
dependencies look how slow this thing
is so
dumb this is why like nobody uses it and
everyone's mad about the um deprecated
thing
look how long it takes these things are
all already installed it's taking this
long just to verify that they're
installed it's just really slow
code I just want to see if this makes a
difference in where it's
built but yeah that's
ridiculous independent researcher
technically so am I but hey puffer's a
company
oh the terminal just got
stuck
um well this didn't give me a log for
anything did it
wheel
um why did this just build a
I thought when you did a local install
it
wouldn't so this is a dumb suggestion
good job chat
this interestingly enough
when you do a install local it seems to
trigger a full
rebuild
okay
so hold on let's let it
finish sioning SE
MOA pre compute we'll fix All These
Warnings eventually as
well uh there's the snake environment
right
build and then at the
end it's going to
weird I mean you can see very clearly
what it's
oh
wait I think hold
on I might I think I know I think I
figured it
out I guess it's still kind of a long
shot but what if I do puffer lib
environments ocean snake SI
snake HH I bet you if I do
this I bet it works
degree applications open
[Music]
soon I've had rarer drops in games dang
I best of luck
yeah doing cool stuff can improve your
chances
right basically all you need is for to
be one Professor I mean assuming this is
like PhD or something um all you need is
for there to be one Professor who thinks
your work is cool enough to want to take
you that's how it works in grad school
right um for
phds you have a professor who
underwrites you basically saying like
hey uh I want this guy he's got a spot
in my lab if he if uh if he wants it so
like you can accept him because he's
going to have a spot in my
lab it's not like undergrad where it's
just like a General Admissions pool
professors just can literally Gra
applications so you're really applying
you can also I it's easier to think of
it as applying to a specific
Professor it's hard to get chats with
the professors because they get
inundated with um so so many requests
but you can chat with their grad
students that's a key thing so if you
want to get you know if your foot in the
door with a lab you can chat with their
grad students
often times they'll be happy to chat
especially if you're like hey you know I
read these couple papers of yours these
look really cool I'm looking at you know
applying for next year you know I've
chatted with several people like that
it's a good
strategy B
Li okay so this is very weird
um I named
it I named it like this and it copied it
it copied it to the local still so that
didn't
data I don't think that this is correct
but we try it because why
not I don't think this is
correct I want to see if it does
anything different though I'm curious
independent need to do a
masters all right you're in the uh
you're in Europe or something
right yeah that's
annoying so in the US um you don't get
your Masters before your PhD I think
usually having a masters actually hurts
for having a for getting a
PhD um and then I have a master's but
like I got it during my PhD program it's
just like you check a box along the way
you submit one extra manuscript which is
basically just one of your published
papers in a different format and um you
get your Masters along the way usually
after a couple of
years process is different though our
phds are five years
right Masters is usually for industry uh
not wanting to do a PhD or you get like
two or three years into a PhD program
realize you hate it and just decide to
leave with the Masters it's usually what
it
is it's not necessarily not good enough
for a PhD to be honest it's usually just
like fed up with the [ __ ]
not it's not copying at
all this is
different but it's not copying the build
files at
all required
obtain depends on the
University I don't think I've ever heard
of that happening at like MIT or
anything um
yeah generally at the top places like
um the the hard part is getting in
right and then they try not to [ __ ]
you too much once you're in you got
enough [ __ ] to deal with just with
the publishing process so like there
aren't a ton of
courses um you know it's really about
the research and generally like you're
going to be capable of doing some stuff
right I mean even in my case right I had
a really hard time publishing stuff just
because like the topic I'm working in
like people are just actively hostile to
publishing this type of work right I've
worked in other areas before and it was
fine
um but still you know got a few
Publications in I got a few different
other accolades and it was fine right
you can still be still perfectly good
and I gave a really good thesis defense
so like everyone's
[Music]
package data can I find their like API
like why
it we have the extension thing
here but this doesn't do doent like the
setup hold on is this is this it is it
the flat layout let me
see by default
default consider two separate
okay so this
is this is what we're doing right
where does it say where it's built built
too Lon eua good luck with paper thank
you thanks for dropping
by start the
puffer puffer needs to be fed a steady
diet of stars
entry points where's their freaking API
though
like this is not
it and we're already here so they just
don't have docks
great
setup there's literally like where the
hell are their API where's their API on
this you know what like screw it I'm
just going to can I just find it on
GitHub
just read their freaking do uh read
their
Source holy hell is there a lot of stuff
in here
this
it I mean star star adders it this
doesn't give me
anything so great
let me make sure it didn't just build it
correctly
27th
uh hold on today is August 27th
but the I see the doso in here is August
24th so it's not actually building this
right so we'll run the setup again
right and then we'll see if it generates
the
file I also want to check Discord
because I probably have
people holy
I don't know if you're still here Nathan
I didn't check your update when you
posted it before this is freaking
amazing I love
this uh Google dopus it's
uh it's really
cool oh my gosh I am so happy about that
wow that's amazing man holy
oh man like that's Nostalgia Nostalgia
Nostalgia holy I love that
game [ __ ] that is
awesome
wow oops let
me not leak DMs
dude this is so awesome to have people
like hanging around building
stuff so
cool got to build better tools for him
to support it
right we're going to have that thing
running online holy hell maybe not with
the not with the stolen craw
artwork but with everything
else
ah all
right oh bet that's funny hold
on okay this is getting built
um oops and then I mistype it this
it's a really cool game that may as well
be named heroin this along with
RuneScape are the only two things that
have ever gotten me for like thousands
of
uh I miss something here hold
on
people I'll put that up there so I don't
miss
right we don't see it any oh no wait it
is built it is being copied now [ __ ]
okay
uh
H what is going on oh I I don't know I
had a couple post blow up in the last
few
days the fun thing about it is like it's
actually it ends up not being
let me
do I'll show you this
so here's the fun thing with Twitter
right I can like stir up a bunch of
stuff and I'm not just baiting right
like this is legit stuff yeah I'm being
a little bit annoying about it but like
the
uh the result of this is another hundred
followers right so like it's all good
the promo is legitimately important
right there more eyes on puffer more
eyes looking at the work
package data
right this doesn't seem like it works to
me I don't think this is doing anything
actually so we're back to where we
started on that
side um python setup tools
building in Project
rout it should be respecting I guess the
extensions thing just doesn't respect in
place right
let's tring to think let's see if I can
fix the other thing for now just so I
can at least get this working
today let me
set there goes the
phone let me set an alarm so I don't
miss
this let's see if I can at least get
something to work in the meantime even
if I have to hack it a little bit
right can I just
do what if I just do
this if it's going to build in the root
level directory right can I just do
this and then run the demo
okay perfect so now we get an actual
error that we can debug which is a
Linker
error cannot open Liber
a.so
right okay so we have
rib Liber
correctly I have RB I have L RB here
I've got all the options don't I
okay it didn't actually recompile you
can see right there it didn't recompile
so it just copied
how did I eat four cookies without
realizing
thing
okay does this do anything probably not
right I was thinking maybe that the um
the flag was like breaking the compile
but I guess that wouldn't make sense
would
Ray okay so we have
here rib snake
correctly installed on your system no
that's wrong dumb
me Sim length nope that's
dumb that is
path why do I
need not doing any s Souls
option
for why do I
need M passing the
include Library
do oh because this is dynamically linked
that's
why so we need to pass
okay so there is a runtime libraries dur
option I remembered this CU I looked at
the
source uh yes it should
be just like that
runtime Library D is no not snake this
is the compile time
so let's see what happened it
did
recompile
oh you see it got far
there
so now we have to actually look at if I
made issue errors with the code I think
this is as far as it gets
right snake uncore net takes 13 but it
was given 17 I don't know if that's
I think it's SI
snake PX
right okay so here this one
takes one two three four
12 13 14 15 16 plus self is
17 [ __ ] reviewer number will I it's
Academia man it's just
[ __ ] it's so stupid
like you can read the article on uh on
archive it's basically what I submitted
and like does it have some slightly
unacademic language yeah but does it
have like plenty of objective and very
well-defended claims with huge amounts
of evidence and like really obvious
impact yeah absolutely as well
like I just wanted for once to write a
paper that I actually considered good
and have it get published like I
honestly hate all the papers I wrote in
my PhD they're so dry they're so boring
and like you kind of it's like a
collection of facts where you lose the
plot because like you're not allowed to
frame anything properly because that
would be subjective or something
thanks for dropping by though
these we're going to beat these bastards
like the field is just going to change
overnight under their feet and then it's
going to be up to them to adapt because
the Innovation ain't coming from
there I'm used to it will like I've been
dealing with this stuff my entire PhD
you think that reviewers want to publish
fancy Sims I mean you probably know from
mineral maybe that was a little easier
cuz like Minecraft and stuff but yeah
it's like anything that's engineering
heavy it's like almost Auto reject it's
really hard to get that stuff
through I thought we were going to do
better with puffer though cuz the OB
like the impact is just so obvious right
like we're training 10 times faster than
standard libraries and that's like half
of the contribution at
most whatever got a real cool video
coming out that'll probably piss him off
even more but it'll be really cool to
see sort of outlined my whole plan for
everything we're
doing yeah I know that you know because
you worked on Sims
right but like it doesn't matter because
like the stuff is just going to be so
fast soon that it's like everything else
is going to get left behind like you can
make you know you can develop all the
things that you want and you can do all
the math you want but at the end of the
day when I'm running running tens of
billions of experiments per GPU per day
on tens of billions of steps of
experiments per GPU per day on like all
sorts of interesting environments like
everything's automated at that point
right yeah best paper is not
published I mean like why even have
these this like review process right it
just waste everybody's time is
nuts can't we just like semantically
can't we just like embed all the papers
and then like group them in the Halls by
semantic embedding wouldn't that be just
way
better same with Yen Lon yeah I know no
man I'm not discouraged like I know it's
not me like I've been dealing with this
[ __ ] for years it's just still
frustrating cuz like the promo
opportunity from being able to show this
stuff off at nups I'm really loud at uh
at conferences and like I print all my
posters on like crazy cyan backgrounds
and stuff so like I can talk to 400
people in two hours
so you know it sucks to lose the
okay you know the funniest thing with um
with tools will is like I guarantee you
that nobody would give that review if it
weren't
anonymous because like nobody wants to
sign on the dotted line I don't ever
want free RL support from this awesome
library right nobody wants to sign that
they'll gladly use the tools even if
they'll reject the
paper couple of sciency yeah but like
the thing is I did that for years with
neurom MMO and I hate all my papers I'm
not going to like I'm not an Academia
anymore I'm not going to publish stuff
that I think is bad right
and there was science there was plenty
of sciency stuff in there right like we
had like cold hard numbers on
performance we had like good analysis of
a bunch of environments we showed like
hey look some of these environments are
just impossible to vectorize with
standard methods because they have
really high step variants so you're
limited by the slowest one we had all
sorts of cool stuff in
there publishing how [ __ ] prams are
yeah you'd think so but then
like the resistance is real it's like
it's so much copium there's like so much
academic
copium I mean like here if you publish
something that's like hey look we should
just run extensive hyper pram sweeps
because that makes a way bigger
difference in performance than
algorithms then people will say like
well we need to find algorithms that are
less hyper parameter sensitive and then
I say like [ __ ] you can't prove
that algorithm is less hyper parameter
sensitive cuz you're not running a full
sweep like for all we know you just got
lucky with the optimal hyper parameters
which like or with the default hyper
parameters which happens all the
[Laughter]
time so it's like nobody's you're not
doing science anyways like you want to
see science all
right here here's your published paper
that tells you you're doing bad science
to what's the
difference
do you know like the uh the Jelly Bean X
kcd where it's like hey all the research
is wrong cuz like Bon Ferron coefficient
over a number of
Publications yeah this is one of these
happening all right see you around
by two wait one two three four five six
seven eight nine 10 11 where the heck is
this 13 coming
from snake underscore
net I screw something up in uh SE
[Music]
is this actually
working I think this is the code I think
this is C code isn't
it I'm pretty sure this is our C
environment running here not the scon
one with python
bindings is it really this easy or am I
somehow screwing up and somehow running
the uh you know running the the scyon
code I think I think we got it though
yeah you can run into yourself right
boom I think we got
it that is
nice perfect on timing too because
um I got to go get ready for this
meeting going make myself a shake real
quick and stuff before this
uh that's cool
well we figured it out kind
of this puts it in a good spot at least
might stream a bit more after this
meeting might not we'll see might start
editing depends what we're feeling um
but that's nice that's a nice little bit
of progress going to make it way way
easier to do some
work see
you yeah all right folks so I'm going to
head out to this meeting um maybe be
back later there's going to be more cool
environment development soon uh if you
want to support puffer for
free start the
repository helps me out a whole ton I'll
put the link in the
chat and uh if you're interested in
learning a bunch of ultra high
performance RL maybe you have some
software engineering experience and are
getting into AI maybe you're already in
ml and want to do some RL maybe you're
already in RL and want to do some like
ultra high per Sim stuff let me know
we've got people doing all sorts of
amazing work around puffer and I'm very
happy to help out with that type of
stuff so uh thanks for your interest and
see you around